Update index.md (#37339)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/cascade/index.md

   | 5                              | author (developer)       | `!important` |
   | 6                              | user                     | `!important` |
   | 7                              | user-agent (browser)     | `!important` |
   | 8                              | CSS transitions          |              |

3. **Specificity**: In case of equality with an origin, the [specificity](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Specificity) of a rule is considered to choose one value or another. The specificity of the selectors are compared, and the declaration with the highest specificity wins.
4. **Scoping proximity**: When two selectors in the origin layer with precedence have the same specificity, the property value within scoped rules with the smallest number of hops up the DOM hierarchy to the scope root wins. See [How `@scope` conflicts are resolved](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@scope#how_scope_conflicts_are_resolved) for more details and an example.
5. **Order of appearance**: In the origin with precedence, if there are competing values for a property that are in style block matching selectors of equal specificity and scoping proximity, the last declaration in the style order is applied.

> The cascade is in ascending order, meaning animations take precedence over normal values, whether those values are declared in user, author, or user-agent styles, important values take precedence over animations, whether those values are declared in user, author, or user-agent styles, and transitions take precedence over important values.

Reviewer: That sentence is long and difficult to parse; how about splitting it up like this?

> The cascade is in ascending order, meaning animations take precedence over normal values, whether those values are declared in user, author, or user-agent styles, important values take precedence over animations, whether those values are declared in user, author, or user-agent styles, and transitions take precedence over important values.

Author: Thanks, I agree it's more readable.

| 4                              | All unlayered styles | normal       |
| 5                              | inline `style`       | normal       |
| 6                              | animations           |              |
| 7                              | All unlayered styles | `!important` |
| 8                              | C - last layer       | `!important` |
| 9                              | B - second layer     | `!important` |
| 10                             | A - first layer      | `!important` |
| 11                             | inline `style`       | `!important` |
| 12                             | transitions          |              |

In all origin types, normal styles contained in layers have the lowest precedence. In our example, the normal styles associated with the first declared layer (A) have lower precedence than normal styles in the second declared layer (B), which have lower precedence than normal styles in the third declared layer (C). These layered styles have lower precedence than all normal unlayered styles, which includes normal styles from `unlayeredStyles.css`, `moreUnlayeredStyles.css`, and the `color` of `p` in the `<style>` itself.

> If any of the layered styles in A, B, or C, have selectors with higher specificity matching an element, similar to `:root body p { color: black; }`, it doesn't matter. Those declarations are removed from consideration because of _origin_; normal layered styles have less precedence than normal unlayered styles. If, however, the more specific selector `:root body p { color: black;}` was found in `unlayeredStyles.css`, as both _origin and importance_ have the same precedence, _specificity_ would mean the more specific, black declaration would win.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any layered styles in A, B, or C have selectors with higher specificity matching an element, similar to `:root body p { color: black; }`, it doesn't matter. Those declarations are removed from consideration because of _origin_; normal layered styles have less precedence than normal unlayered styles. If, however, the more specific selector `:root body p { color: black; }` was found in `unlayeredStyles.css`, as both _origin and importance_ have the same precedence, _specificity_ would mean the more specific, black declaration would win.
```

The layer order of precedence is inverted for styles declared as `!important`. Important declarations found in a layer take precedence over important declarations found outside of a layer. Important declarations found in the first layer (A) take precedence over important declarations found in layer B, which take precedence over important declarations found in layer C, which take precedence over important declarations found outside of a layer.

### Inline styles

> Only relevant to author styles are inline styles, declared with the `style` attribute. Normal inline styles take precedence over any other normal author styles, no matter the specificity of the selector, unless the property is animated or transitioned. If `line-height: 2;` were declared in a `:root body p` selector block in any of the five imported stylesheets, the line height would still be `1.6`.

Reviewer: I'm not 100% sure about this, but it feels like moving the bit about animations/transitions as you have done splits the previous point into two, making it slightly less obvious what the third sentence connects to or why it is there. 

As a fix to this, maybe add to the end of the third sentence something like ", unless it is being animated."?

Author: Alright, I added a distinct sentence for animated and transitioned properties for normal inline styles, following the same structure as important inline styles.

Reviewer: Yup, this looks good - thanks!

> Important inline styles take precedence over any other author styles, important or not, inline or not, layered or not. Important styles also take precedence over animated properties but not transitioned properties. Three things can override an important inline style: 1) an important user style, 2) an important user agent style, or 3) a transitioned property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Important inline styles take precedence over all other author styles, regardless of whether they are important, inline, or layered. Important styles also take precedence over animated properties, but not transitioned properties. Three things can override an important inline style:

- An important user style.
- An important user agent style.
- A transitioned property.
```

## CSS animations and the cascade

> [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animations), using {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} at-rules, define animations between states. `@keyframes` don't cascade, meaning that at any given time CSS takes values from only one single `@keyframes` and never mixes multiple ones together. If multiple `@keyframes` are defined with the same animation name, the last defined `@keyframes` in the origin and layer with the greatest precedence is used, and the other `@keyframes` are ignored, even if they animate different properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animations), using {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} at-rules, define animations between states. `@keyframes` don't cascade, meaning that at any given time CSS takes values from only one single set of `@keyframes` and never mixes multiple ones. If multiple sets of `@keyframes` are defined with the same animation name, the last defined set in the origin and layer with the greatest precedence is used. Other `@keyframes` are ignored, even if they animate different properties.
```

Reviewer: Breaking up long sentence, clearing up perceived plurality weirdness.
